- [**PG**](https://www.nicvape.com/store/p/1529-Propylene-Glycol.aspx) or [**VG**](https://www.nicvape.com/store/p/1530-Vegetable-Glycerin.aspx) 

- \- You’ll need some propylene glycol or vegetable glycerin, usually referred to as PG or VG. This is called the “diluent”. Nicotine and flavorings are highly concentrated and need to be diluted for a pleasurable vaping experience, so you’ll use PG and VG as “the base” or "carrier fluid" making up most of the volume of your formula.

- - There are nuanced differences between PG and VG. They have slightly different tastes, viscosities, and throat feel when vaped. Most e-Liquids have a mix of both presented as a ratio of PG to VG. Common ratios are 70/30, 50/50, or 30/70. Flavor concentrates are generally diluted with PG, which is why you will commonly see MaxVG as the description rather than 100% VG. Both PG and VG are perfectly fine for vaping, but you’ll probably want a little of both to experiment with different ratios if you are just getting started.
    - PG is an organic chemical compound that is widely used in food, tobacco, and personal care products. It is also used in topical, oral, injectable, and inhaled pharmaceutical products. PG doesn’t alter the true flavor of the flavor concentrates as much as VG can. Also, PG delivers a stronger throat hit, which can result in slight irritation after extended use. It is rare, but some people have or develop an allergy to PG.
    - VG is slightly sweeter and slightly more viscous (thicker) than PG. Higher VG ratio eLiquids may take slightly longer to soak into a cotton wick, for example. VG can slightly alter the way a flavor tastes, but that can be good or bad depending on your individual taste. High VG is usually preferred by “drippers” using cotton and coil atomizers, because it has a smoother throat feel and generates a more visible “cloud.”